---
layout: post
title:      "Job Markets and Puppy Mills"
date:       2018-09-09 18:18:50 +0000
permalink:  job_markets_and_puppy_mills
---


Thanks for tuning in! I wanted to pass along what I have found thus far in my search throughout the job market for software development. Boy are there jobs! Big ones, small ones, full-time, part-time, contract, city, rural, and the list goes on. What all of us have been searching for, jobs that need special people, are still here at the end of the tunnel. Even though bootcamps have sprouted up at an exponential pace, there still seems to be a disconnect between the labor force and the technical job market. As we all know here, when we see the words "2+ years experience", we go for it, and we would all be homeless if we didn't. There is no choice but to beef up what you've done, simply for the fact that jobs actively vying for bootcamp graduates aren't around. Maybe they were 3-5 years ago, but for a graduate now, there won't be as warm of a welcome as there once was. 

In my opinion, the advent of bootcamp has brought in businesses that are more focused on volume rather than quality. As Flatiron students, we have to hand in labs at least every two lesssons, and if we don't; we don't move forward in the course. That ensures a pool of students that have had to think out answers to problems in many different variations and environments. Whether it's a social media app, a candy store, or that Pokemon one 3 modules ago, we are tested on things that are truly difficult. However, to the employer, we are still the same as those who haven't been tested in that environment. My friend and I both did Bootcamp Preps at two different schools. I went to App Academy, and I came out knowing how to sort various types of data and utilize functions at a beginner level (from novice!). He was having trouble with basic iterations, let alone objects. The variation was astonishing, and the only people who would know the difference between him and I was someone that was interested enough to ask.

We know what we are up against. Thousands and thousands of computer science graduates come out of school every year, and many have the ability to say their experience with a language was when they were 18-19 years old. This is now paired with a critical mass of bootcamps, with some now spending more money on their sales staff than their technical staff. Long story short - We got alot of people to beat out for jobs. Linkedin's feature of "X number of people have applied" is helpful to see just how many people you need to beat out. For Junior roles, I have rarely seen less than 100 resumes sent in within 2 weeks of posting. 

Fear not Bootcampers and Evangelists, the world is not totally dark. The jobs we made this decision for are still there,  both Junior and Senior. The path to getting your foot in the door has just become more...unique. Slamming your resume and cover letter into every company's virtual mail slot will not work as maybe it once had. Linkedin's members have gotten wise to our sorcery of adding them and explaining your deep interest in the role, and those connections are becoming few and far between. No matter where you are in your journey, start to think about your strategy for getting a job. You are clearly a unique person if you're reading this *pats self on back* , so this whole process is going to have be unique moving forward. Even as I write this, I don't have the magic bullet for what would work for other people's bootcamp alumni experience. If I do, I will surely provide it (once I use it of course!). No matter your situation, if you're sans job in this course, you should already be thinking of your next step. Craft a strategy that you've never heard of to get a company's attention. Ya, the engineering is tough, but the answers to all our software problems are online, and they'll wait for us. What won't wait is money, so make sure to digress and throw some ideas against the wall. Best of luck to you. 


